Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lopes and.
I'm joined by Doctor Elise Zipkin. She's Red several
distinguished professor and director of the Ecology, Evolution and
Behavior Program in the Department of Integrative Biology at
Michigan State University. And today we're going to focus
on topics such as animal population dynamics, species distribution,
biodiversity, human activities, conservation, invasive invasive species, and climate
change and some other related topics. So, Doctor Zipkin,
welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to
everyone. Thank you so much for the invitation.
So, perhaps, uh before we get into more specific
things, let me just ask you about two or
three concepts here for people to understand what we're
going to talk about. So, one of the things
you study is animal population dynamics. So, what is
that and what kinds of questions do we, do
you explore
there? Yeah, good question. So basically my lab is
interested in understanding the abundance and distribution of species,
mostly animal species, although we do work on some
plants, and I'm sorry about that. Um, SO we
work on estimating the abundance of distributions of species
and how they change with things like other other
environmental change, uh, climate change, and other kinds of
human and natural disturbances. So what we're interested in
is why are populations changing? What causes populations to
and communities of species to change through time? I
mean, first, to understand that we need to understand
what's a baseline. What do we see now, what
have we seen in the past, and Then we
try to look at, all right, what, what do
we also think about might happen in the future
under different kinds of environmental change that we may
have or um you know, even things that are
are possibly a little bit less likely, but we
still want to know what the possibilities might look
like.
But in your specific case, do you focus only
or mostly on anthropogenic activities and how they impact
species population dynamics, or do you also focus or
try to study how those dynamics change through natural
processes?
Yeah, we also try to understand how populations change
through natural processes like with there were no kinds
of human interventions or human disturbances. And the reason
you have to do that, if you, if you
were focused only on wanting to understand, you know,
the effects of anthropogenic activities, you would still need
to know what are the kind, how does the
population, you know, what would you expect naturally to
happen. Happen. So there's no real way to study,
you know, what's going on with the effects of
human intervention if we don't really understand, you know,
what, what we would expect to see with the
population. So most of the models that we're doing,
you know, we're incorporating both of those things or
the things that we think are relevant for that
specific population or community of species, um, to get
the, the full picture. Mhm.
And what the species distribution mean? What is? That
is
such a good question. You send that question. I
thought, you know, that's very insightful question because the
truth is, you know, it's really hard to understand
it. So in the, in the, you know, kind
of broadest sense, what we really want to understand
is, where does this species exist and where does
it not exist? And You can think of kind
of like a range. OK, this species occurs in,
you know, the western part of North America. But
of course, within that, it's not occurring at every
location within there, right? And these processes are dynamic,
you know, so they're not, um, really, you know,
static through time. There's something that are kind of
always changing. So it is a really It was
a really, really good question. It's a useful concept
for us, right, because we, if we constantly were
thinking about all the nuance, it would be difficult
to ever get things done. But so in, in
the broadest sense, right, it's just like where that
species is existing, you know, a delineating kind of
that area, but once you really dig down deep
into it, it, it becomes really complicated.
But uh when it comes to species distribution, uh,
do you, are you trying to understand what are
the factors that play a role in a particular
species being able to live and adapt to different
sorts of ecological conditions? Is that it?
Yeah, that's a good way to think about it.
I mean, so basically we want to understand those
factors that are in particular locations, how much they're
affecting, you know, the species either occurring there or
how many of that you see there. Like, let's
say it was some sort of, you know, bird
species, a species that we think of typically as
inhabiting forest, um, you know, forest habitat, but the
forest itself has a lot of, you know, nuance
and variation. There might be differences in the canopy.
Cover what the tree looks like, what the understory
looks like, you know, how much brush there is.
And so it's not the same throughout. So we're
trying to understand, you know, those factors. OK, maybe
it's a forest bird and we expect it to
be here, but is it in certain locations at
higher and lower densities because of the kind of
habitat that we see in those areas?
Uh, AND so I would imagine that it also
includes factors like, I don't know, temperature. And latitude
and the different kinds of food that each species
will have available and can consume all of those
sorts of environmental factors, right?
Yeah, so there are all sorts of things that
would affect like where, you know, where a species
would occur, right? The kinds of things that we
all think about, you know, that every, um, you
know, animal needs food, needs shelter, you know, other
types of resources, those sorts of things, um. And
so we are always including it, but you bring
up a really good point, which is, we may
think something's really important, but we may not have
the data available to actually include it, right? Um,
SO you said something about the food. Well, we
might know broadly how the food of an organism,
you know, is distributed, but we don't know, we
may not have the data really to know that
at a very fine granular level. So that's also
like what, what makes this process really complicated.
And so perhaps the question that most people would
be interested in here in this conversation, because, of
course, environmentalists also talk a lot, talk a lot
about it. What is biodiversity? What does that mean
in the context of biology and environmentalism?
Yeah, so bioversity is just simply, you know, the
variety of life on Earth, and you could think
about it sometimes we're thinking about it the whole
globe. What does that biodiversity look like across the
planet, but also sometimes we're thinking about it on
a smaller scale, you know, what is the biodiversity
look like in these particular areas, um, and the
reason we care about that. Right, is because biodiversity
and higher biodiversity is linked to all sorts of
things that are beneficial to both, you know, humans
and natural and managed ecosystems, right? So, um, biodiversity
is linked to, you know, things like, um, clean
water, clean air, um, the, the production of food.
So even in managed habitats like. Even in agricultural
fields, we can see that higher biodiversity of certain
kinds of insects or even plants in between those,
you know, row crops can lead to better outcomes
for, um, you know, crops for managed crops. So
there's all sorts of reasons why biodiversity has many
benefits, um, both the natural systems and to people
as well.
But is it always better to have more biodiversity
or, I mean, how should we think about it
exactly? That's also a really good question. Um, I
mean that's something that ecologists debate, right? Is, is
higher biodiversity always better, um, and, you know, it's,
it's, it's pretty nuanced. I would say that, you
know, Some places on the globe, right? Like if
you think about the equator, there's more, you know,
there's higher biodiversity in areas around the equator and
tropical ecosystems compared to like, let's say polar regions,
the Arctic or Antarctic. So we can't like naturally
say, OK, it's better, you know, the, the area
around the Um, um, equators better than, you know,
the areas around, um, the poles, right? Because they're
really different kinds of ecosystems, and they would sustain
life in really different ways and there just would
be maybe a lower carrying capacity for organisms in
Arctic systems, um. So I can't say that it's
always better. What I would say is that, you
know, as as for for people, one of the
things that's probably the best is to think about
trying to maintain or restore amounts of biodiversities that
have historically been in the regions that, you know,
that we're that we're thinking about, right? So, um,
thinking about populating with native species that have been
in areas, you know, since the last ice age
kind of a thing. That's that's probably. The best
way I think to think about it. So it's
not just more is better everywhere, we want everywhere
to have the most. We want, you know, to
think about what kind of native plants and animal
species, and fungi and um bacteria, you know, there
are in um different parts of the globe for
different reasons.
So, since I mentioned the environmentalists, I guess that
one question that people would have at this point
is, why then should we care about biodiversity?
Yeah, so as I was saying, like the biodiversity
is really what maintains life on Earth, right? So
in addition to all the things about, um, you
know, cycling nutrients in our systems, um, producing, helping
to produce clean water, um, also, you know, there's
all sorts of issues like all of our, um,
medicines basically are derived from natural compounds, you know,
we, we We are constantly exploring. I mean, scientists
are constantly exploring, um, you know, the medicinal properties
of plants, for example, and those end up being
part of, you know, the important medications that we
all use. So really, um, you know, reduced biodiversity
is going to make our lives harder and there'll
be some thresholds where it will make it, you
know, in reality where it would be very difficult
for people to exist, you know, so, um. So
it has a lot of properties I think that
that humans rely on whether we're not we're thinking
about it every day.
Right. So, uh, I mean, I, I, I hope
that this is not too broad a question, but
what gives rise to biodiversity and what are the
kinds of factors that play a role in how
it increases or decreases over time?
Yeah, that's, I mean, that's a really hard question
too, and again, that's like whole fields that people
study, but I would say, you know, it's this
interaction of ecology, which is how um Popular species
interact with their environments and other different species, each
their own population, their own individuals within their species,
and also um individuals outside of their their species,
and also evolutionary processes, right? So maybe some of
your audiences heard of things like natural selection, which
is the process by which, um, you know, uh,
organisms speciate through time. So new new individuals happen.
So 10, we tend to think of that through
some random processes of mutation, um, and maybe movement
of um species and also related to, you know,
what the environmental process um is like in particular
locations. But one thing I think that's really important
to note is that the process of creating species,
right, is much, much slower than, for example, the
process by which we are currently losing species. So
there's no way, right, we, we think of speciation
as, you know, something. That happens on geological time.
Whereas right now, you know, the loss of biodiversity
that we're experiencing those rates are comparable to, you
know, the five mass extinctions that we've seen in
in the past in the fossil record, um, for
biodiversity. So it's not like we're gonna be able
to In a short time frame, easily replace biodiversity
that we've lost, um, but obviously on geological times,
you know, that will, um, Kind of the there'll
be more life on earth and more variety of
of of life on Earth, but of course we
don't know what that looks like.
Right. But what kinds of human activities tend to
have an impact on things like species distribution and
biodiversity?
So really I would say, you know, you could
kind of think of it as almost everything we
do has an impact. That's not to say that
it's a negative impact, right? But when we're, you
know, when we're obviously like, you know, if we're
doing things like removing habitats, so that's a big
one, where we build our houses, where we build
our cities, even in rural areas where we modify
landscapes, um, that's gonna have an impact on, you
know, the other. Organisms that live in that area.
And even things about, um, though, you know, areas
that we keep for parks or areas that we
should keep natural, um, you know, the kinds of
management we do also has impacts on biodiversity in,
in maybe positive or negative ways, right? And, and
not all biodiversity is necessarily gonna respond, you know,
to, to, to, um. The kinds of, I'll say
disturbance, but it could be, you know, changes that
that humans make in the same way. Some kinds
of um some species, you know, we may uh
put in lawns in our, in our yard. For
the most part, lawns, for example, are um decrease
biodiversity, right? Decrease the amount of species that we
see there, but some species are going to increase
in those kinds of monoculture, you know, environments, so.
Things will always respond differently, uh, you know, different
species will respond differently to different stressors and different
changes that we see.
And what about the specific case of agriculture? How
can it affect uh different animal species?
Yeah, agricultural is a really good one because obviously
it's hugely important, right? I mean, we all need
agriculture everywhere around the world. It's not going anywhere
and um it has a huge benefit for humans.
But there's a ton of research, tons of research
at my university at Michigan State, but also All
over the world where people are trying to think
about, all right, how do we implement agriculture in
ways that are both good for the environment, good
for the native species that are there in the
region, and also can increase crop yields. So agriculture
is a really interesting one, you know, um. Historically
we might think about like, OK, people come into
an area, they clear the area, they plant their
plants, but what we found through time, right, is
that um if you try to continually do that
and just plant, you know, um. Uh, SPECIES for
food through time, we see that the productivity of
that land can go down, right? So it becomes
really important to let those lands be fallow or
to um think about managing them in a way
that can promote biodiversity, and, and we've seen in
some situations that that can really lead to much
higher yields, especially through time. So there's lots of
research being done on, you know, crop rotations, um,
putting in prairie strips around agriculture that can improve
biodiversity, but those outcomes also end up being really
good in many situations for the production of crops.
So tons of research. THAT, um, especially in the
Midwestern US where, you know, there's a lot of
agricultural land, um, that's, that's a big, big area
of research. I think that's both impro improving food
production and improving, um, you know, biodiversity, natural biodiversity
in those areas.
Mhm. Because there are also some wild species that
can have a positive role in agriculture,
right? Right. Exactly. There can be a lot. I
mean, there are, of course, pests. I mean, we're
also thinking about people are also thinking about ways,
yeah, how do you prevent, let's say you're growing
blue blueberries, which is something popular in the state
of Michigan. How do Prevent, you know, birds from
eating them. So, I mean, we, we understand that
side of it too. But it's not like you're
gonna want to remove all the birds from the
system, right? Because on the other hand, other birds
are eating, um, insect pests, right? That are problematic
for the blueberries. So it becomes kind of this
complicated game where you're trying to figure out, all
right, what's the best approach. For getting the outcome
that we want, but also for um maintaining a
healthy ecosystem so that people into the future are
going to be able to use this land, you
know, effectively. We don't want to just do something
and then, oh, OK, this, this area is, is
it good to be used now for 10 or
15 years while it regenerates. That's, that's not good
for people either, you know.
Mhm. So, but with uh things like environmentalism and
climate change in mind, what is conservation and what
are the kinds of approaches and tools that conservationists
have at their disposal?
Yeah, so conservation is just, I would call the
smart use of natural resources. So the use of
natural resources in some way where we're not depleting
it, we're thinking about the future for for us,
for other species, you know, um, and we're trying
to use our resources in a way that's sustainable
through time. Um, SO what was the second part
of the question?
Uh, THE kinds of approaches and tools that conservationists
have at their disposal. Right,
so I would say, you know, in a lot
of ways, anybody who's doing any kind of land
management, anybody who's doing, you know, agriculture, um, you
know, let's say, um, tree logging, tree farming, everybody,
I almost think of all those people as, you
know, uh, conservationists or at least very involved with
conservation because They want, they don't want, nobody wants
to develop something and then have that area or
land that you've been using, you know, burn out
within a short time. So really everybody, I think
that that is thinking about natural resources is doing
this in a way that they at least want
it to be sustainable for for themselves. Then they
may not be thinking about the sustainability of broadly
of, you know, for example, broader um biodiversity, um.
Issues, but lots of times, you know, people are
still doing it for their own service. So Um,
so that, that's a big one. I would, one
of the big things that conservationists, I would say
really do now is we try to think about
um protecting areas that are sort of natural already.
So that's a big one where both, you know,
I would say private sectors, um, government, um, you
know, all sorts of of groups of people are
thinking about or how do we Protect the area
that we currently have that's sort of a natural
or at least, um, you know, managed like parks,
um, ecosystems. And then the other piece I think
that's really, um, big that people think about is
restoration. All right, how do we make an area
that has been degraded, um, better again for the
native species and biodiversity in that area. So those,
those I think of as kind of kind of
the 22 ways that people are thinking about it.
But there are many other, um, many, many other
ways that people think about, uh, uh, conservation. And
it really just depends, like, are you focused on
individual species? Are you focused on the community of
species? Are you focused on the ecosystem processes? What
exactly are you trying to conserve through time? And
so, yeah, so there's a lot out there and
a lot of innovative ways that people are, um,
thinking about it.
And are there any particular ways for us to
decide or determine uh that we should try to
conserve a particular species and not uh another one,
or how do we do that?
That's a really good question. I mean, so that's
a really good question. I will say that in
practice it really does happen by what people care
about, right? Like we find out that, um, you
know, whether or not one species is getting Um,
Conservation status and, you know, in a in locally,
regionally and nationally or um conservation inter interventions really
ends up depending on what people think about or
what people care about. So there's this concept that
we call charismatic megafauna. Charismatic species, and the idea
is that there are certain species, usually they're big,
um, not always, um, that people really care about,
you know, you think about something like pandas or
lions or even the monarch butterflies, one in North
America, um, but iconic species that people really love
that. And I think a lot of decisions get
based around that, um, what the public cares about.
But also I would say what scientists are thinking
about, um, and people who are working on conservation
is they're also thinking about, all right, what are
the species or Or processes that really matter. So
another concept in ecology is the idea of keystone
species, and that would be a species by which
if you remove them thing, you know, the entire
ecosystem may change, right? So, um, If we took
out, for example, you know, wolves in North America
as one, right, when, when we removed the top
predator in there, we've seen high increases of things
like deer, elk, browsing, ungulates, and that's led to
low loss of um a lot of different um
herbaceous species and really big changes then to ecosystems.
So, so there could be, you know, that's of
some of what we're thinking about, um, when we're
thinking about what, what's the best thing to do
from, um, an ecological standpoint, how do we, um,
keep this ecosystem intact and functional to the best
of our ability, but that doesn't always match with
the policy or what the public wants. So I
think, you know, um, in practice what happens is
not really the decision of scientists.
Yeah, because I would imagine that it's much easier
for people to empathize with mammals, for example, animals
that are closer together and that are acuteer, let's
say, but then, uh, other kinds of animals like
insects or, or even. Fish and even plants, fungi,
and other species like that.
Right, that's right. And the thing about it is,
is, you know, we fail to consider that like,
all right, those insects, they're performing very, very important
ecosystem services, um. You know, and so it's important
that we're thinking broadly and not just about those
species, you know, that we that we like or
visit in the zoo or that sort of thing,
but that that's tricky, you know, and and it
it's a value judgment in some ways, not it's
not always an ecological decision, certainly what gets conservation.
So, and what is an invasive species?
So we talked a little bit about native species,
and those are species that historically have lived in
an area. So non-native species are species that within
a recent some sort of time frame are not
species that have been there, so they've been introduced
in some ways. Usually we think about this as
the facilitation of people introducing them, um, which is
What is happening, uh, you know, around the globe.
So in some instances, non-native species can move into
an ecosystem and they don't really change things that
much. But in some cases, and those are species
that we call invasive species, um. There are cases
where the species comes in and it really, really
changes in ecosystem, right? So, um, and it can
lead to all sorts of things. So for example,
there is a um fungal pathogen that we call
BD and it has been transported around the world
really by facilitated by humans, and that's led to
the loss of um Uh, amphibians, frogs in many,
many locations, um, across the Americas, but also in
other parts of the world as well. So sometimes
we see something like happen, there's classical examples of
that, um, you know, kind of with, with rats
everywhere with rats being introduced and coming in and
changing ecosystems, um, lots of, there's lots of um.
YOU know, stories out of Australia. So for example,
cane toad. I don't know if you've heard about
cane toad, but that's a species that was introduced
into Australia quite some time ago to control something.
I don't remember what they introduced it for. So
people came, brought it, but it's very poisonous and
others. Species. It didn't never control the pests that
they wanted to control. And then it's very toxic.
So other species would eat it and and die.
So really, and it's spread throughout Australia, right? So
there's lots of examples of where, um, you know,
species have come in and then very, very much
changed the ecosystem, um. So in those cases, it
tends to become pretty important to do active management
to try and mitigate the negative impacts of an
invasive species into um some region.
And I would imagine that many times the sort
of process of introducing new species in a particular
ecology where they would be invasive or have some
detrimental effects on the ecosystem there would be, uh,
done unintentionally, right? So even just people traveling or
moving around, uh, I mean, we carry at the
very least bacteria with us,
so. Yeah, I would say certainly now, right? People
are really, it's it's it's you, there aren't so
much. Um, OR you don't see, you know, I
would say the last 50 years or something like
that, this kind of management where you're, oh, let's
just bring this species into this area and dump
it there, right, because people know how much that's
backfired at places around the world. But um it
happens all the time where they get moved in.
So for example, there's a fish called sea lamprey,
and it preys on um native fish. It's, it's
actually an ocean fish, and it, it's a really,
it's actually a really prehistoric fish. I encourage, uh,
your watchers to look it up. It, it, it's
got these rows of teeth, it sucks onto a
fish. Anyways, it's made it through the Great Lakes,
right? Because we made all these canals and series
of waves so that the lakes would reach out
to the ocean and boats could move back and
forth. Well, it's in all the great lakes and
it's caused a huge loss, a huge decline in,
um, native fish in those areas. And people, you
know, Both commercially and recreationally, um, you know, fish
eat those fish, right, rely on that sustenance. So,
so it could have really, really big effects, um,
and most of the time I would say yeah,
now, um, you know, it's something that's done unintentionally.
And if we've already introduced invasive species into a
new ecosystem and new environment, what different kinds of
ways do we have to control them?
Unfortunately, if there's a species that's so sometimes it
happens, right, that you introduce a non-native species and
again it's not so bad, but once we start
introducing species that have really negative consequences and invasive
ones. It's almost impossible, impossible to remove them, um,
and we see this over and over again. Um,
SO the main thing that people try to then
do is just slow the spread, um, so there's
this Asian carp that's coming up through the Mississippi
River, um, and they're working really hard to, you
know, prevent it from coming into the Great Lakes.
So the idea is to spend as much time
as we can to control, to control where it
is rather than erratic. IT. It's almost impossible. I
mean, you could think about that kind of with
coronavirus, right? Like, once it gets to a certain
size, you can't really contain it, um, but you
can have strategies maybe to mitigate its spread or
something like that. So it's, it's, it's a little
bit like that, um. But there's really very, very
few situations, um, during, during which way you could
really, you know, um, get rid or or could
seriously control a invasive species without a lot of
active management all the time. Um, SO there's a
uh an example right now where in the United
States. The government is planning, I don't know if
they're still planning to do this, but they were
talking about planning a killing, um, really thousands of
barred owls, and the reason for that is because
they're moving in, they're they're, they're invasive, they weren't
naturally in the western part of the US, but
they've moved in probably. Um, THEY moved in by
themselves. They weren't moved by people, but they were
facilitated by the development of people that have come
around, and they're outcompeted and endangered species there called
the spotted owl, um. But the problem is, I
mean, one, there's obviously an issue that people have
to contend with with do we really want to
kill thousands of birds, but second, I think is
the, the real very, very real possibility that it
won't really be effective, right? And even if it
was effective for a short time, you'd have to
keep Killing a lot of birds, a lot of
the barred owls to, um, you know, prevent them
from out competing the spotted owls, which are, are
smaller and use the same habitat, um, so that's
kind of an example where, you know, it's just,
it's just really, really hard to control once once
they're established.
And if we try to control invasive species, could
it happen that sometimes it backfires and it so
how? That's a, yeah, yeah, I think the the
backfire line is from a paper that I wrote.
This is actually in my master's, um, my master's,
one of the first papers that I worked on
where um small mouth bass had been introduced to
northern lakes, so that used to happen in the
US quite a lot. People like to fish them.
They don't necessarily eat them as much anymore, but
they'd introduce them to all these northern. And they
kind of take over. They were one of those
evasive species, although brought in by people where, um,
they really changed the ecosystem. They changed, you know,
they outcompete in native trout species, um, and they
changed kind of the whole dynamics of biodiversity in
the lake. So one of the problems that we
worked on is, um, uh, uh, this was a
collaborative team at Cornell University, where they were trying
to, OK, can we remove them, right? Using certain
size nets and electroshock fishing, can we remove them
and what's gonna happen? So what ended up happening
is it became, you know, you can't really right
away you realize, OK, you can't get all the
small bass out of the lake. Even this is
a closed lake, wasn't that big. I think it
was like 271 hectares, so not huge. Um, BUT
right away you start to realize, OK, we can't
get rid of all of them. But what we
actually found is when we, when they, when they
went around and took out kind of some of
the bigger ones, the ones that you catch, the
next year and then the subsequent years after that,
there were more individuals than there previously had been,
and they were all kind of small, so they
were tiny small uh um size class. What had
happened is those very, very big individuals that are
really hard to catch basically can just Produce tons
of um of offspring, and then we would see
more individuals than we had prior to um the
initiation of the removal. Of course there was less
biomass cause you were removing some of those medium
sized bigger groups of fish, but But there were
more overall individuals, right? And that it really becomes
this game of, OK, how do you, how do
you keep this up, right? Uh, IT'S, it's very,
very difficult. So again, one of those stories where
controlling invasive species, if it's very difficult to do,
and if you do it, you're probably gonna be
doing it forever. Um, YOU can't really stop.
But uh since we're going through climate change, uh,
I need to ask you, I mean, what are
perhaps some of the most negative effects that climate
change can have on biodiversity, species distribution, and other
things?
Yeah, this is a really, really good question. I
mean, again, so we talked about this idea that
there's always some winners and there's always some losers.
And what we've been seeing with climate change is
there really are more losers than they are winners
in a lot of instances. So, um, you know,
the temperatures change, the precipitation changes, um, that changes
all sorts of what's available for resources, the plant
communities, and what we find is that in a
lot of cases in the community, whether it's birds,
it's butterflies, um, amphibians, um, other kinds of species,
you know, mammals. Um, A lot of times we
find is that has that tends to have a
negative impact on most species. So most species end
up declining, um, and we see, you know, fewer
of them or they restrict their range, they move
to different areas. So and we see that a
lot, but on the flip side, there are a
few species that are really winners, um, and they,
they tend to have certain kinds of traits, you
know, they could be more adaptable, you know, they,
they have a wider range, um, maybe of a
temperature, um. Uh, ABILITIES to be in different, different
temperatures, and, uh, maybe they can make use of
different kinds of habitat or resources, some sorts of
generals flexibilities. So some of those species then will
increase. We'll find that some of those increase. And
then what we see kind of through time is
what we call and space, time and space is
what we call biotic. Homogenization. And that is that
areas that used to be really different, that used
to have all different sorts of species might become
more similar through time. And, um, I mean, one,
there's this intrinsic value, right to the variety of
Earth. I think across the world, right? People love
to see different kinds of beautiful species of butterflies
and birds. And and enjoy that, you know, um,
that variety of life. But also what we find,
you know, so there's that, but also we find
is we can lose specific functions. So, you know,
different, different types of birds play different roles in
the ecosystems. Some eat um fruit, you know, some
eat fruit, some eat seeds, some eat, um, you
know, other birds, some eat, uh, insects, you know,
there's all different variety and those have really important.
Ros that make it ecosystem function. So when we
see this biotic homogenization, we see more and more
of the same and places around the globe, um,
looking more similar to each other than they used
to be. And that loss, you know, that that
could be a big loss for people through time,
right? Because that could lead to things like Lower
food production, um, less, um, opportunity to find medicines
and, you know, in plants and, um, all sorts
of other things that, that might be repercussions of
that, right? Inability of, you know, water to, um,
To to get uh cleaned, you know, there are
natural ways by which um ecosystems uh help preserve
clean water um and clean air, and so we
could see, you know, those functions diminishing and it
becoming harder to uh maintain those kind of all
those things that we really take for granted that
biodiversity gives us.
So at the end of the day, even we,
if we have a few winner species, that is
not uh good enough to compensate the fact that
we are losing all the other species or some,
some of the other species or, or is it?
Yeah, I mean, it's hard to say how it
will play out everywhere and through time, but in
general people benefit from a wide variety of biodiversity,
right? Because it basically gives us more options, right?
If, if we're trying to look for a new
medicine, you know, for a new disease that comes
up, we want to have more options available to
us, right? We don't want to inadvertently having made
that specific plant go extinct, right? So, um, You
know, in some cases, maybe it won't matter too
much, you know, in in specific locations at specific
times that that will have the functions that we
need through the biodiversity that's there. But in other
cases, I mean, we already see that that can
cause huge rippling. Affects, right? So the loss of
some species groups or some types of species can
impact other species that lead to these kinds of
cascades where you're having um really important biodiversity loss
that you may not even really be able to
measure because you never knew what the baseline was
there, um, and that happens, you know, in, in
the tropics or other areas where there's lots of
species we don't even necessarily know. So I would
say, you know, it's kind of like the precautionary
principle. If you, if you're not sure it's gonna
be good right into the future, you want to
be a little bit careful about what you do,
and that's kind of how I think of biodiversity,
right? Um, IT'S this amazing kind of resource that
we have on the planet. Um, THAT sustains life,
um, not just for those organisms that are there,
but for all of us, all the people and
everything, so we want to be careful about, you
know, what we do to to lose that. It
may have really big impacts for us and our
children, um, down the road.
So, my last question will be then and this
is circling all the way back to our first
question. So, I mean, uh uh is it possible
with the knowledge, the scientific knowledge we have and
the tools we have at our disposal to predict
how particular uh populations, specifically animal populations will react
to climate change.
Yeah, so that is one thing that we're working
on a lot, you know, how to, what's the
future gonna look like, and the reasons we wanna
know that is because we wanna know what kinds
of interventions or things that we should or can
do that might make things better, right? Um. And
I would say, OK, the short answer is no.
It's not possible to predict what's in the future,
and the reason for that is, right, we don't
know what climate change itself is really gonna look
like, right? So there's lots of different models out
there that show, all right, here's what we think
may be happening if, you know, we see um.
1 C 2 C, you know, all those sorts
of things, but we don't really know how it
will play out, how it will play out across
the globes, and even those, those are called global
circulation models, GCMs that are trying across the world
to, you know, predict what The climate might look
like and weather patterns might look like under different
climate change scenarios. But each one of those models,
you know, there's different groups around the world that
take a ton of competing powder, computing powder, each
one of those around the world is making predictions
that they're not the same, right? Because there's all
different kinds of nuance that are difficult to bring
in. And then the same thing about, you know,
so there's one, there's this uncertainty about what the
environment will look like in the future. And then
the other thing is we have an uncertainty about
what we know for the animals, you know, for
for species and for biodiversity can only You know,
data are just data. They're not, they're not, um,
perfect. And same thing with our models. If it
was, you know, if we could create a model
that was reality, we would just call it reality,
right? So the model by by definition is going
to be wrong. It's an imperfect description that we
have of of the environment and what we think
is going on. Um, SO we know it won't,
it won't be correct and and we can kind
of try to understand. Which we do all the
time, where or what are the pieces that we
think we don't know that well. So really, I
would say with the prediction, what we're really trying
to do is have this uncertainty about what that
future climate looks like, plus this uncertainty about our
understanding of how species respond to environmental variables, and
we can put that together and we can give
you what we think about is not predicting the
future, which is impossible, but predicting out what probabilities
of different things that we might see. Is there
a high probability? That this population will decline into
the future in these areas under certain conditions or
not. So that's kind of the thing that we
try to look out, not necessarily what the future
will be, but how much confidence do we have
in these possible different scenarios. The species is fine,
the species increases, the species decreasing, right? That sort
of thing, under different scenarios. So we'll never know
what the future holds, but we try to think
about what could happen. Under different scenarios. And if
we could say, all right, look, 70% chance this,
this trajectory is going to happen, even if we
see different climate scenarios, that's useful, right? And then
we can think about into the future, how do
we plan for that? Um, KNOWING it's not certain,
right? Knowing it's not certain with some flexibility in
there, but how can we plan for that and
think about where might we want to do conservation?
What would be the best approaches, what's likely to
work, that sort of thing.
Great. So just before we go, would you like
to let people know where they can find you
and your work on the internet?
Yeah, so I have a website, um, www.zipkinlab.org, um,
and there's more information there. All our papers, the
peer reviewed papers that we publish are free on
there, so anybody can, um, you know, access the
work that we do. We also publish all the
code. All our models do. There's a link on
there to our GitHub repo, because one of the
things that I think is really important is open
science and that what we do is reproducible and
can be used by others to make it better
into the future, you know. So, um, that's another
thing I think, you know, that can help this
process along.
Great, so I'm leaving the links in the description
of the interview below. So Doctor Zipkin, thank you
so much again for taking the time to come
on this. It's been a real pleasure.
Yeah, thank you so much. Yeah, it's been really
interesting.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Nights Learning and
Development done differently, check their website at Nights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Mullerns, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyches Olaf,
Alex Adam Castle, Matthew Whitting Barno, Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Erika Lenny, John Connors, Philip Fors Connolly. Then the
Mari Robert Windegaruyasi Zup Mark Nes called in Holbrookfield
governor Michael Stormir, Samuel Andre Francis Forti Agnseroro and
Hal Herzognun Macha Joan Labray and Samuel Corriere, Heinz,
Mark Smith, Jore, Tom Hummel, Sardus France David Sloan
Wilson, asila dearauujoro and Roach Diego London Correa. Yannick
Punter Darusmani Charlotte blinikol Barbara Adamhn Pavlostaevsky nale back
medicine, Gary Galman Sam of Zallirianeioltonin John Barboza, Julian
Price, Edward Hall Edin Bronner, Douglas Fre Franca Bartolotti
Gabrielon Scorteseus Slelitsky, Scott Zachary Fish Tim Duffyani Smith
John Wieman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georgianneau, Luke
Lovai Giorgio Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Wozin, David Williams,
Diocosta, Anton Eriksson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez,
Coralli Chevalier, bungalow atheists, Larry D. Lee Junior, old
Erringbo. Sterry Michael Bailey, then Sperber, Robert Grassyigoren, Jeff
McMann, Jake Zu, Barnabas radix, Mark Campbell, Thomas Dovner,
Luke Neeson, Chris Storry, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert, Jessica
Nowicki, Linda Brandon, Nicholas Carlsson, Ismael Bensleyman. George Eoriatis,
Valentin Steinman, Perkrolis, Kate van Goller, Alexander Aubert, Liam
Dunaway, BR Masoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular John Nertner, Ursulauddinov,
Gregory Hastings, David Pinsoff Sean Nelson, Mike Levine, and
Jos Net. A special thanks to my producers. These
are Webb, Jim, Frank Lucas Steffini, Tom Venneden, Bernard
Curtis Dixon, Benick Muller, Thomas Trumbull, Catherine and Patrick
Tobin, Gian Carlo Montenegroal Ni Cortiz and Nick Golden,
and to my executive producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian,
Bogdan Kanivets, and Rosie. Thank you for all.